reflex roll for taking cover after round end?
consider having guns w/out clip or magazine only partially reload?
introduce overpenetration

first need to summarize how eureka ranged combat works

rolling to hit is a firearms skill check w/ a full success needed for a hit

Firearms/Reflex roll needed for reloads?

firearm basics
when firing a gun a firearms roll is made for each individual shot

a full success hits the target, a partial success or failure misses the target

all guns deal 4 penetrative damage per shot

a firearms roll is made to reload (maybe change this to a reflex roll?)

a full success allows for a reload and then an action
partial success allows for a reload that takes a full turn
failure is two turns spent reloading

shots at extremely close range against targets not resisting
shots at long range against still or slow moving targets is +3


advanced firearms rolls
all gun characteristics like ammo capacity etc should be based on real
characteristics

Stabilization
roll to keep yr aim steady while quickly firing multiple shots
rolled the first time a character fires multiple shots in one round
make a firearms or athletics roll (whichever is higher)

on a full success there is no penalty to rolls to hit
on a partial success all shots for the round have a -1 penalty
on a failure all shots for the round have a -2 penalty

Woo Roll
Bullets always hit something!
if a shot is not a full success roll 1d6
on a 3 or higher it will hit something that somehow benefits the shooter
on 2 or lower it'll hit something that doesn't benefit the shooter like

If a shot is a partial success rol the woo roll normally
if it was a failure subtract -2
or do coin flip/d2/odds or evens to determine good or bad

affect obvious things in the room first

full success still needed to hit elements of the environment intentionally

Woo Roll Tables
Used for when there aren't obvious objects in the environment that could be hit

Positive Woo Roll Table
2: Hits the target as if it's a full success
3. hits target's weapons and disarms them without destroying the weapon
4. hits and destroys the target weapon
5. hits the targets headgear and knocks it off/damages it. removes armor provided by a helmet
6.Bullet strikes ground near target's foot -1 morale or gunfight composure roll
7. Hits target's body armor and causes 2 superficial damage if they have armor if not
deal 4 superficial damage from a limb shot
8. bullet hits or destroys ammo on the targets body -1 morale or gunfight composure (consider replacing with limbshot roll instead)
9. bullet hits and destroys magazine or ammo in targets but leaves weapon intact -1 morale or gunfight composure
(consider replacing with limbshit roll from 7)
10. same as 8
11. bullet richocets and hits an enemy the shooter wasn't aiming at for 1/2 dmg
12. bullet ricochets and hits the target for half damage

Negative Woo Roll Table
2. bullet ricochets and hits shooter for half damage
3. Bullet richochets and hits ally for half damage
4. shooter's gun explosively malfunctions causing shooter 2 penetrative damage
5. shooter's gun jams or otherwise malfunctions
6. the shooter's grip slips and they lose their grip on the gun dropping it
7. the shooter's grip slips causing them to have a -1 penalty next time they shoot (entire turn)
8. smoke and powder residue blows back in shooter's face causing them a -2 penalty next time they shoot
9. gun doesn't actually fire
10. shooter's gun malfunctions so poorly that proper repair will be required before it functions next (consider more rare)
11. shooter's gun explosively malfunctions causing 4 penetrative damage (consider making more rare)
12. runaway firing (see later)

Firing Options
single bullet: make a firearms roll. on full success the shot hits the intended target
	on a partial sucess make a woo roll. on a failure make a woo roll with a -2 modifier
two round burst: any semiautomatic gun can do this. if a firearm in use does not have a stock first make a stabilization roll
	then make two separate firearms rolls as single bullet

three round burst: any semiautomatic gun can do this. make a stabilization roll if the firearm
	doesn't have a stock. Attack can be made on up to 3 targets (consider making this perk only)
	make three separate firearms rolls.

Fully automatic fire: usable by full auto capable weapons. Make a stabilization roll even if the firearm has a stock
	then make 4-12 firearms rolls potentially against multiple targets with a perk. when firing more than 3 at once
	firearms checks are made with d12's instead of 2d6's. on a d12 1 represents a failure and a 12
	represents a full success regardless of modifiers
	

=Effective Range=
	when firing at a target within effective rnage there's no penalty
	when firing at targets within the bottom 20% of a gun's effective range there is a +1 bonus
	you can also fire at a target within arms reach (in this case 1 block) if its a long gun there's a -2 penalty not a bonus
	pistols can be fired at no penalty within arm's reach
	when firing @ targets outside the effective range each multiple of the effective range beyond the first gives a -1 penalty to the shot

=Reloading=
all mags and clips need to be tracked!
	reloading depends on what kind of magazine they have (single load internal magazine vs external magazine/stripper clip)
- reloading guns w/ an internal magazine is a firearms or reflex roll (whichever is higher)
	- on a full success it takes 0 turns meaning the character can take another action that turn
	- on a partial success it takes 1 turn
	- on a failure it takes 2 turns

- reloading single load guns like revolvers ALWAYS takes 1 turn and it loads 1d6+firearms/reflex(?)

=Stopping Power=
	- long rifles and shotguns reduce any resulting injury roll by one degree of success or more.
	- rifles always reduce the injury roll by one
	= how much a shotgun affects the injury roll is dependent on the range from the target
		- within 10 yards the injury roll always fails (this is very strong, balance it) (maybe make it unable to penetrate armor?)
		- within 20 yards it works the same as a rifle
		- within 45 yards it doesn't affect the injury roll

=Cover=
- Soft Cover is anything that offes concealment but not cover. it imposes a -1 penalty to the firearms roll
- Hard Cover is anything a bullet can't easily penetrate. it imposes a -2 penalty on the firearms roll to hit
- Ballistic Shield - a character using a ballistic shield

=Ducking=
NPCs and PCs will be able to duck as an action (able to do it in reponse to being shot at?)
ducking making attacks targeting them take a -2 penalty that stacks with cover
characters must make a reflex roll to determine how quickly they can act again
	- Full success: can act as soon as it's their turn
	- Partial success: must pass 1 turn before acting again
	- Failure: must pass 2 turns before acting again
firing a gun ducking behind soft cover imposes a -1 penalty
 
HOW DOES SHOOTING ACTUALLY WORK
	- select a target
	- choose what kind of ranged attack the player will be making
- single bullet
	- apply effective range modifer to firearm roll
	- apply cover modifiers to firearm roll

- two round burst

- three round burst

- fully automatic fire




gun attributes
manual, semiautomatic, automatic
pistol rifle or shotgun
stocked or unstocked bool hasstock
single load or magazine load
effective range
magazine size
current ammunition


have half cover and full cover instead of soft and hard (include penetration)
duck as automatic response to being shot at if they succeed a reflex roll
